Add 2.277.1 changelog and upgrade guide (#4134)
jenkins-infra/jenkins.io: content/_data/upgrades/2-277-1.adoc

> ==== Plugin updates

Reviewer: ```suggestion
==== Configuration Form Modernization
```

> The configuration user interface transition from HTML `table` layout to HTML `div` layout has required several plugin updates.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The transition from HTML `table` layout to HTML `div` layout in configuration forms requires changes in some plugins for compatibility.
```

Jenkins administrators should update the installed plugins when they update to Jenkins 2.277.1.
Some older plugin releases will cause the Jenkins "Configure System" page to fail to save.
Other older plugin releases will report Java runtime exceptions until they are upgraded to the most recent release.

> Popular plugins that need to be updated after upgrading to Jenkins 2.277.1 include:

Reviewer: Inconsistent uses of update/upgrade in this section.

Author: Fixed in c27269d615cf9c58d31cae4b3c8e6819c0b6a0a9

* plugin:branch-api[Branch API plugin]
* plugin:envinject[Environment injector plugin]
* plugin:favorite[Favorite plugin]
* plugin:github-branch-source[GitHub branch source plugin]
* plugin:ldap[LDAP plugin]
* plugin:maven-plugin[Maven integration plugin]
* plugin:parameterized-trigger[Parameterized trigger plugin]
* plugin:token-macro[Token macro plugin]

> Use the Plugin Manager to update plugins after upgrading to Jenkins 2.277.1.

Reviewer 2: shouldn't we linked to the [migration guide](https://www.jenkins.io/doc/developer/views/table-to-div-migration/) and the [dashboard](https://issues.jenkins.io/secure/Dashboard.jspa?selectPageId=20741) in this section too?

Reviewer: Different target audience for the migration guide I think, but could a `NOTE: Documentation for plugin maintainers is here:` or similar.

> Use the Plugin Manager to update plugins after upgrading to Jenkins 2.277.1.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use the Plugin Manager to update plugins immediately after upgrading to Jenkins 2.277.1.
Make sure to _Check for Updates_ to ensure no outdated cached data hides updates.
```

> ==== Spring security update

Reviewer: ```suggestion
==== Spring Security update
```

Jenkins 2.277.1 has replaced the outdated Acegi Security library with the Spring Security library.
The most popular plugins have already been updated as necessary to support the change.
Refer to the link:https://github.com/jenkinsci/jep/blob/master/jep/227/compatibility.adoc[Spring Security compatibility table] for questions related to specific plugins.

Privately maintained plugins may need changes to adapt to the change from Acegi Security to Spring Security.
Refer to Jesse Glick's link:/blog/2020/11/10/spring-xstream/[Spring Security blog post] for more details.

==== XStream update

> Jenkins 2.277.1 has replaced its outdated copy of the XStream XML serialization library with a recent release of the official XStream library.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Jenkins 2.277.1 has replaced its outdated fork of the XStream XML serialization library with a recent release of the official XStream library.
```

Without forking, no need to go back to "official".

Privately maintained plugins may need changes to adapt to the change from the Jenkins XStream fork to the official XStream library.
Refer to Jesse Glick's link:/blog/2020/11/10/spring-xstream/[XStream unfork blog post] for more details.

// Intentionally not including this, since I'm not aware of any issues reported and don't know what the user would do if there is a problem.
//
// ==== JQuery update
//
// Jenkins 2.277.1 has replaced its outdated copy of the link:https://jquery.com/[JQuery user interface lirary] with the most recent release library.
// The most popular plugins have already been updated as necessary to support the change.

==== CVS plugin unbundled

Jenkins no longer automatically installs the plugin:cvs[CVS plugin] on startup if a plugin depending on Jenkins (then Hudson) 1.340 or earlier is discovered.
If you use a plugin that relies on the functionality provided by CVS plugin and manage plugins outside the Jenkins plugin manager, you will now need to ensure yourself that a recent release of CVS plugin is installed.

> Jenkins will attempt to load such plugins but may fail at any time during startup or afterwards with `ClassNotFoundException` or similar.

Reviewer: Would just copy and slightly adapt https://www.jenkins.io/doc/upgrade-guide/2.204/#stop-bundling-maven-plugin-and-subversion-plugin-with-jenkins for the explanation. This is otherwise lacking context.

Author: Thanks for the pointer.  Done in ff47a1801f83a6035e8fd6b5c957aa878771f904

==== Configuration Form Modernization

The transition from HTML `table` layout to HTML `div` layout in configuration forms requires changes in some plugins for compatibility.
Jenkins administrators should update the installed plugins when they upgrade to Jenkins 2.277.1.
Some older plugin releases will cause the Jenkins "Configure System" page to fail to save.
Other older plugin releases will report Java runtime exceptions until they are updated to the most recent release.

> Use the Plugin Manager to update plugins immediately after upgrading to Jenkins 2.277.1.

Reviewer 3: Well, you should also be checking for updates _before_ upgrading, to pick up fixes for JEP-227/228 incompatibilities. (Which are all available for older Jenkins versions with one exception: `cas-plugin`.)

Author: @jglick are there examples of JEP-227 and JEP-228 failure modes from outdated plugins that we could include in those sections?  I've experienced the "Configure System" failure and the runtime exceptions, so was able to use them as examples of the types of failures.

I think those examples would increase the chances of the text being found by search engines, if they are available.

Author: Mentioned specific exceptions in 52f7baa09fc37149ed5ba99cd3a1f399404f6b71.  Also included instructions that they should update plugins before they upgrade to 2.277.1.

> Use the Plugin Manager to update plugins immediately after upgrading to Jenkins 2.277.1.
> Make sure to _Check for Updates_ to ensure no outdated cached data hides updates.
> 

Reviewer 2: not needed? the fix to reload on upgrade / downgrade was backported
```suggestion
```

Reviewer: Thanks, I was unaware of that.

The first sentence is still useful though.

```suggestion
Use the Plugin Manager to update plugins immediately after upgrading to Jenkins 2.277.1.
```

Author: Removed in 60354e7af801f725f6371d4f217c2b4c300b2b76

> ==== Configuration Form Modernization

Reviewer 4: PR 4962 is not documented though it might require changes by users

Author: Thanks for catching that.  Will add [PR 4962](https://github.com/jenkinsci/jenkins/pull/4962) from the weekly changelog.

Author: Added 97206d871d5ccfc317b74fcf937dbe102eb3203c

The transition from HTML `table` layout to HTML `div` layout in configuration forms requires changes in some plugins for compatibility.
Jenkins administrators should update the installed plugins when they upgrade to Jenkins 2.277.1.
Some older plugin releases will cause the Jenkins "Configure System" page to fail to save.
Other older plugin releases will report Java runtime exceptions until they are updated to the most recent release.

> Popular plugins that need to be updated after upgrading to Jenkins 2.277.1 include:

Reviewer 4: Not helpful without popular plugins not fixed yet, e.g. Authorize Project

Author: Removed in 1d0d15b2d8e5e1fb39efe9eea2da410f257d552d

* plugin:envinject[Environment injector plugin]
* plugin:favorite[Favorite plugin]
* plugin:github-branch-source[GitHub branch source plugin]
* plugin:ldap[LDAP plugin]
* plugin:maven-plugin[Maven integration plugin]
* plugin:parameterized-trigger[Parameterized trigger plugin]
* plugin:token-macro[Token macro plugin]

Use the Plugin Manager to update plugins immediately after upgrading to Jenkins 2.277.1.
Make sure to _Check for Updates_ to ensure no outdated cached data hides updates.

NOTE: Plugin maintainers should refer to the link:/doc/developer/views/table-to-div-migration/[table to div layout migration guide].
The link:https://issues.jenkins.io/secure/Dashboard.jspa?selectPageId=20741[table to div dashboard] provides the status of issues related to this user interface improvement.

==== Spring Security update

Jenkins 2.277.1 has replaced the outdated Acegi Security library with the Spring Security library.
The most popular plugins have already been updated as necessary to support the change.
Refer to the link:https://github.com/jenkinsci/jep/blob/master/jep/227/compatibility.adoc[Spring Security compatibility table] for questions related to specific plugins.

> Privately maintained plugins may need changes to adapt to the change from Acegi Security to Spring Security.

Reviewer 4: Applies to the change above as well, with higher likelyhood of a change

Author: Added as part of 0cb78e6d33

Refer to Jesse Glick's link:/blog/2020/11/10/spring-xstream/[Spring Security blog post] for more details.

> ==== XStream update

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
==== XStream update (JEP-228)
```

Jenkins 2.277.1 has replaced its outdated fork of the XStream XML serialization library with a recent release of the official XStream library.
The most popular plugins have already been updated as necessary to support the change.
Refer to the link:https://github.com/jenkinsci/jep/blob/master/jep/228/compatibility.adoc[XStream compatibility table] for questions related to specific plugins.

Privately maintained plugins may need changes to adapt to the change from the Jenkins XStream fork to the official XStream library.
Refer to Jesse Glick's link:/blog/2020/11/10/spring-xstream/[XStream unfork blog post] for more details.

> // Intentionally not including this, since I'm not aware of any issues reported and don't know what the user would do if there is a problem.

Reviewer 4: Should be fine
